Ansible
---------

What is the need for configuration management?
Earlier we have the data centres and has ex over 10k instances which are different versions like ubuntu,centos,alphine,windows. Suppose u have to do upgrade the versions
to latest and do security patches or install any dependency applications, sys admins used to write the script to perform the operations. 
It required to write multiple scripts for each distro/version and each distro requires different scripting language, so there’s a need to build a configuration tool that can solve this problem.

Tools:
Chef -> Puppet ->Ansible->Salt
Ansible is the widely and mostly used configuration management tool in industry.

chef vs ansible

chef:
Uses pull method 
Master, slave architecture: requires to do configs,cert  rotations
chef requires its own language
Ansible:
Uses push methods
*Agentless architecture : 
Ansible will run via ssh connection in linux machines and winrm in windows machines.
It allows passowrdless login, through ip/dns updated in inventory files will perform the configurations.
Dynamic inventory-Ansible also supports dymanic inventory which auto manages the configuration of a server when it was not created using ansible by autodetection.
Ansible supports both windows and linux machines, windows support increased after it was merged with redhat
Ansible modules are written in pyhton language – to manage our services we can write modules in python language on our own and share it with community over Ansible galaxy.
Ansible supports yaml language which doesn’t require user to learn a new one for managing services cause yaml is widely used in Kubernetes aswell.

Ansbile drawbacks:
Ansible has its setbacks/issues/improvements in these areas:
1. Performance issues over large servers
2. Less Windows support
3. Debugging -ansible debug mode





Ansible installation: sudo apt install ansible
Usecase: two server 
1. Ansible
2. Ansible target
Login to ansible using private and create ssh keys in .ssh folder
Loginto ansible target using private and create authorised keys file  and add the ansible public key in authorised keys file and save it
Now connected to ansible target server thorugh ssh @privateip of target server
note: we use private ip cause we are in same vpc
ansible inventory file: has details with regrads ip add of target servers default location of file is /etc/ansible/hosts
We have cli commands for ansible for small actions like in shell (ls -al) we doesn’t have to write playbook for small actions like shell script for small actions
These cli commands are called adhoc commands in ansible
to talk with ansible target server
ansible -I inventory “ipadd” -m “shell” “touch ansible.txt”
-I for inventory and -m for module u can change modules 
if inventory file is not in default path we use -I inventory if yes we don’t need to use this flag
u can use all inplace of ipadd to execute command in all mentioned server in inventory file
uor u can write ur inventory file like
[db]
ip
ip 
[service]
ip
ip and execute thecertain block like ansible -I inventory service -m “shell” “touch file”
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
create servers using terraform
configure using private public key and add in authorised keys
ssh @privateip
using adhoc commands/cli commands talk to target server
inventory file []
playbook
roles
---
- name: install nginx and start service
 hosts: all
become: root
tasks:
-name: install server
apt:
name:nginx
state:present
-name:sstrat service
service:
name:nginx
state:started

ansible -I inventory ip/all  -m “module” “command”
ansible-playbook -I inventory ansibleplaybookfilepath
ansible-playbokk -v -I inventory ansiblepath
Roles
ansible-galaxy role init Kubernetes
pending: dynamic inventory
