Kubernetes is a set of independent controllers continuously reconciling desired state stored in etcd by watching the API Server — not a step-by-step execution engine.

#Kubernetes: Container orchestration Management
Main functionality of Kubernetes is to check the desired state and actual state of services(pod,container,storage,network,volumes)
Kubernetes can be installed via dev(minikube..) prod(kubecdm,kops..)
Kubernetes architecture: Cluster -1.control plane 2.dataplane
cluster:manages all the nodes
1.control plane: Api server, scheduler, etcd, control manager, cloud control manager.
2. Worker node: kubelet, container runtime, kubeproxy

#Flow:
User communicates with Kubernetes thorugh cli and apiserver is the first entry and exit point of the cluster. API Server validates & authenticates
ONLY state-changing api requests (create/update/delete) are stored in etcd. Read-only requests may never touch etcd
Etcd: is used to store the cluster data.
Container is a process isolation of a server- which runs on os-user-space from an image using host kernel. 
Container runtime creates this env for container to run from an image.
Pod is an software program used to group the multiple containers and provide them an common environment with a name space storage and network.

Controllers DO NOT talk to each other.Controllers watch the API ServerAPI Server is the meeting room, not a messenger

#LOW-LEVEL FLOW:
Request: kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
🔹 Step 1: Client → API Server
kubectl sends REST request
API Server authenticates, authorizes, validates schema
🔹 Step 2: API Server → etcd
Deployment object is stored
🔹 Step 3: Deployment Controller (watching API Server)
Sees new Deployment
Creates ReplicaSet object
Writes ReplicaSet to API Server → etcd
🔹 Step 4: ReplicaSet Controller
Sees ReplicaSet
Creates Pod objects
Writes Pods to API Server → etcd
🔹 Step 5: Scheduler
Watches for Pending Pods
Picks a node
Writes nodeName into Pod spec
Stores update via API Server → etcd
🔹 Step 6: kubelet (on that node)
kubelet watches API Server
Sees Pod assigned to itself
Pulls image via container runtime
Creates Pod sandbox (pause container)
Creates containers
🔹 Step 7: kube-proxy
Programs iptables / IPVS
Enables Service → Pod networking

#Pod restart policy depends on
1.restartPolicy (Always / OnFailure / Never)
Always: The container is restarted regardless of its exit status (success or failure). This is the default policy and is typically used for long-running applications like web servers.
OnFailure: The container is restarted only if it exits with a non-zero exit code (indicating an error). This policy is ideal for batch jobs or tasks that should retry on failure until they succeed.
Never: The container is not restarted, regardless of its exit status. This is useful for tasks that should run once and terminate, such as one-off scripts.
2.Probe failures
Startup Probe	Checks if the app has finished its slow boot-up process. If it fails-The kubelet kills and restarts the container.
Liveness Probe	Checks if the app is "stuck" (deadlocked/frozen) during runtime. If it fails-The kubelet kills and restarts the container.
Readiness Probe	Checks if the app is ready to handle user traffic.	If it fails-The Pod is removed from the Service (no traffic) but NOT restarted.

#Default Probe time settings for startup,liveness,readiness
initialDelaySeconds	: How long to wait after the container starts before doing the first check.	0
periodSeconds	: How often to perform the check (the interval).	10s
timeoutSeconds :	How long to wait for the app to respond before calling it a "fail."	1s
failureThreshold	: How many times in a row it must fail before K8s takes action (restarting or removing from service).	3
successThreshold :	How many times it must pass in a row to be "Healthy" again.	1

#nodeheartbeat
kubelet updates NodeStatus every 10s
Node Controller checks health every ~40s
Node marked NotReady after ~40s
Pod eviction after 5 minutes (default)

There are only three things in kubernetes, they are:
API objects (data in etcd)
Controllers (long-running loops)
Pods / Containers (runtime)

#Object:
An object is an data which is not a source code or execution code or any script, its just plain data like A=B. 
An api object is a format of this data into an api readable format like json file which forms a structure to the object(data) like 
json
{
A=B
}
Now deployment.yaml file is converted into an json file by kubectl to send over http(api request) to the API Server 
and api server turns it into typed internal objects and stores it as cluster state.
